welcome my name is lisa and now i'm
going to talk about
precious
in 1987 16 year old precious gabery
sidibe
lives in the harlem neighborhood of new
york city with her unemployed mother
mary monique
who has long subjected her to physical
verbal
and sexual abuse precious has also been
raped by her now absent father
carl rodney bear jackson resulting in
two pregnancies
the family resides in a section eight
tenement and survives on welfare
her first child daughter [ __ ] short for
[ __ ]
has down's syndrome and is being cared
for by precious grandmother
though mary forces the family to pretend
that [ __ ] lives with her and precious
so she can receive
extra money from the government when
precious second pregnancy is discovered
her high school principal arranges for
her to attend an alternative school
where she hopes precious can change her
life's direction
precious finds a way out of her
traumatic daily life
by escaping into daydreams in which she
is loved and appreciated
inspired by her new teacher blue rain
paula patton
precious finally learns to read and
write
she meets sporadically with a new social
worker ms weiss
mariah carey who learns about the sexual
assault in the household when precious
reveals who fathered her children
while precious is in the hospital giving
birth to her second child abdul
she meets john mcfadden lenny kravitz a
nursing assistant who shows her kindness
and develops a crush on him upon
returning home
mary asks to hold abdul when precious's
back is turned
her mother purposely drops baby abdul on
the ground and attacks her
angrily declaring that precious
revelation about the abuse has resulted
in them being cut off from welfare
precious fights back and runs away with
abdul while mary tries to drop the
television set on them
she eventually breaks into her school
classroom for shelter
when ms rayne discovers them the next
morning she frantically calls local
shelters looking for a safe place for
precious and abdul to live in
but they end up staying with ms rayne
and her live-in girlfriend
the next morning ms rain takes her and
abdul to find assistance for them
precious will be able to continue her
schooling while she raises abdul in a
halfway house
mary soon returns to inform precious of
her father's death from aids
precious later learns that she is
hiv-positive
even though abdul is not feeling
dejected
she steals her case file from ms weiss's
office
as she shares the details of her file
with her fellow students
she begins to hope for the future later
precious meets with her mother who
brings [ __ ]
at ms weiss's office ms weiss confronts
mary about her and carl's abuse of
precious
going back to when precious was a
toddler
mary tearfully confesses that she's
always hated precious for
stealing her man by letting him abuse
her
and for eventually making him leave
precious tells mary that she finally
sees her for what she really is
and tells her mother that she will never
see her or the children
ever again leaving with both [ __ ] and
abdul
mary begs ms weiss to retrieve her
daughter and her grandchildren
but ms weiss silently rejects her and
walks away
leaving a distraught mary alone in the
room
precious plans to complete a ged test to
receive a high school diploma
equivalency
she walks out into the city with both
children in tow
ready to start a new life and have a
brighter future
thank you all for watching don't forget
to subscribe and hit the bell
notification for more of these videos
you